Add Damask Upgrade docs (#69)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/general/mainnet/damask-upgrade.md

# Damask Upgrade

This document provides an overview of the changes for the Damask Mainnet
upgrade.

:::caution

> The Damask upgrade on Mainnet will kick off around **Apr 11, 2022 at 9:00 UTC**.

Reviewer: We should probably specify the epoch as well?

Author: Done.

  results of the emitted runtime messages with relevant information beyond
  indicating whether the message execution was successful or not.
  For more details, see [ADR 0012].

In addition to the specified additional features, we also propose the
**validator set size** to be **increased from** the current **110 to 120** as
discussed in the
[Oasis Community Slack #nodeoperators channel][slack-validator-increase].

This upgrade marks an important milestone for the Oasis Network, as it sets the
foundation for unlocking the network's full capabilities.

[ADR 0010]: https://docs.oasis.dev/oasis-core/adr/0010-vrf-elections/
[ADR 0013]: https://docs.oasis.dev/oasis-core/adr/0013-runtime-upgrades/
[ADR 0011]: https://docs.oasis.dev/oasis-core/adr/0011-incoming-runtime-messages
[ADR 0012]: https://docs.oasis.dev/oasis-core/adr/0012-runtime-message-results
[slack-validator-increase]:
  https://oasiscommunity.slack.com/archives/CMUSJCRFA/p1647881564057319?thread_ts=1647448573.197229&cid=CMUSJCRFA

## Mechanics of the Upgrade

On Mar 24, 2022, the Oasis Protocol Foundation submitted the upgrade governance
proposal with id of `2` which proposed upgrading the network at epoch 13402.

:::tip

> As well as submitting the actual governance proposal to the network, Oasis

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to submitting the actual governance proposal to the network, Oasis
```

Protocol Foundation also published the [Damask Upgrade Proposal discussion] to
the [Oasis Community Forum on GitHub].

:::

Node operators which had an active validator node in the validator set had 1
week to cast their vote.

Validators representing more than 88% of the total staking power on the Oasis

> Network participated in the vote and 100% of them voted _yes_ for the proposal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validators representing more than 88% of the total stake in the consensus
committee participated in the vote, and 100% of them voted _yes_ for the proposal.
```

> This upgrade will be performed by exporting the network's state at the upgrade

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The upgrade will be performed by exporting the network's state at the upgrade
```

epoch, updating the [genesis document][genesis-doc], upgrading the Oasis Node
and the ParaTime binaries and starting a new network from the new genesis file.

This will require coordination between node operators and the Oasis Protocol
Foundation.
All nodes will need to configure the new genesis file that they can generate or

> verify independently and reset/archive any state from Mainnet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
verify independently and reset/archive any existing state from Mainnet.
```

> Once enough (representing 2/3+ of stake) nodes have taken this step, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once enough nodes (representing 2/3+ of stake) have taken this step, the
```

upgraded network will start.

For the actual steps that node operators need to make on their nodes, see the
[Upgrade Log][upgrade-log-damask].

[Damask Upgrade Proposal discussion]:
  https://github.com/oasisprotocol/community/discussions/30
[Oasis Community Forum on GitHub]:
  https://github.com/oasisprotocol/community
[upgrade-log-damask]: ../run-a-node/upgrade-log.md#damask-upgrade

## Proposed State Changes {#state-changes}

The following parts of the genesis document will be updated:

:::caution

This section will be updated with the exact details as we get closer to the
upgrade.

:::

:::info

For a more detailed explanation of the parameters below, see the
[Genesis Document][genesis-doc] docs.

:::

### **General**

* **`height`** will be set to the height of the Mainnet state dump + 1, _TBD_.

* **`genesis_time`** will be set to`2022-04-11T10:00:00Z`.

* **`chain_id`** will be set to `oasis-3`.

> * **`halt_epoch`** will be set to`22500`(approximately 1 year from the Damask

Reviewer: I would just bump it by 10,000.

Author: Updated.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

* **`roothash.runtime_state`** contains the state roots of the runtimes.
  Empty fields will be omitted.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

### **Staking**

* **`staking.params.thresholds`** specifies the minimum number of tokens that
  need to be staked in order for a particular entity or a particular type of
  node to participate in the network.

  The `node-storage` key is removed since Oasis Core 22.0+ removes separate
  storage nodes.
  For more details, see: [Oasis Core #4308][oasis-core-4308].

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

* **`staking.params.min_transfer`** is a new parameter that specifies the
  minimum number of tokens one can transfer.
  It will be set to 10,000,000 base units, or 0.01 ROSE tokens.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

* **`staking.params.min_transact_balance`** is a new parameter that specifies
  the minimum general balance an account must have to be able to perform
  transactions on the network.

>   It will be set to 0 base units meaning this requirement is currently not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  It will be set to 0 base units, meaning this requirement is currently not
```

  enforced.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

### **Committee Scheduler**

* **`scheduler.params.max_validators`** is the maximum size of the consensus
  committee (i.e. the validator set). It will be increased from `110` to`120`.

### **Random Beacon**

The **`beacon`** object contains parameters controlling the new
[improved VRF-based random beacon][ADR 0010] introduced in the Damask upgrade.

* **`beacon.base`** is the network's starting epoch. It will be set to the epoch
  of Mainnet's state dump + 1, _TBD_.

* **`beacon.params.backend`** configures the random beacon backend to use.
  It will be set to `"vrf"` indicating that the beacon implementing
  [VRF-based random beacon][ADR 0010] should be used.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

* **`beacon.params.vrf_parameters.alpha_hq_threshold`** is _TODO_.

>   It will be set to `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It will be set to `20`.
```

Author: Done.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

* **`beacon.params.vrf_parameters.interval`** is _TODO_.

>   It will be set to `100`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It will be set to `600`.
```

Author: Done.

  This will be done automatically with the `oasis-node debug fix-genesis`
  command.

* **`beacon.params.vrf_parameters.proof_delay`** is _TODO_.

>   It will be set to `50`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It will be set to `400`.
```

Author: Done.
